So let's start with static caching during installation of the service worker.
Now keep in mind, the service worker is only installed if it changed,
so only if you release a new version of the service worker, otherwise it will not get replaced.
Now for that reason, the installation phase of a service worker is a great place to cache some assets which
don't change that often
like your app shell, the toolbar, your basic styling that might not change every second. Now
also your main scripts, these might change frequently but we would deploy a new version of your application
anyways then, so you can update your cache in this case too
but it doesn't change every second or it's not user created dynamic content or anything like that.
So for that, we'll use the cache API and we have our index.html page let's say, for a given route, for
our main route maybe. We load a couple of assets there like our main script, our main styling and an image and we
want to cache these files.
Now we do that here during service worker installation where we get access to the cache API and can then
store these files in the cache,
this is what we'll do now. These files can then later be fetched even if we have no Internet
and since we put them on the cache
right
here in the installation of the service worker,
they will be available from there already on the next page visit of the user,
so this is the earliest possible point of time we can use to store our files in the cache. Back in the
project,
let's implement this static caching of our app shell.
Now as we identified, the app shell is basically our index.html file in the root folder,
this is the starting page we're probably landing on
if we just visit our main page, it there is also all these scripts we're using here because these scripts
are required for this page to work correctly
and of course, these styles we're importing. This is our stylesheets but also that style we're importing
from this CDN here, that's from the material design lite package, this theme we're using. The same is
true for the icon set here and these fonts,
these are all in the end things we want to cache right at the start of our application because they
define how our main page looks like, our apps shell looks like.
Now in a single page application, this is even more important because in our app here, we actually have different
pages though they use a lot of shared assets,
so the other page also uses the app.js file and so on and uses the same styling,
so what we cache on our main page is also available there of course. On single page applications, you
don't even have multiple pages though, so there especially what you cache on your main page is available
throughout your entire application no matter which URL
the user visits.
So therefore, we should cache as much as needed but not everything because you don't want to overpopulate
your cache. For one, the browser might clean it up if it runs out of space, if it gets too occupied
and therefore you want to be conservative about what you put into the cache and on the other hand, if you cache too
much, there is the danger of loading content from the cache
even though for the given resource, an up-to-date version from the network might be more appropriate
but we'll talk about different caching strategies later.
For now, let's store these files in our core or in our cache
during the installation event.
So for that, in the install event listener, we want to access this cache API and we do this by accessing caches,
this simply refers to the cache API, caches and then open. With that, we can open a new cache in there.
Now when I talk about the cache API and a cache in that cache, you can simply have a look at it on the
application tab in your developer tools.
You have your cache storage down there and in that cache storage where you have only one per given
page, per given domain
even, there you can open multiple sub-caches
so to say and this is what we can do with the open method.
If it already exists, it will open it,
if they tried to open a cache which does not exist yet, it will create it.
However, keep in mind that I told you that in a service worker, we work with asynchronous code because
it's running in the background and it's event driven,
therefore the install event doesn't wait for this to finish by default,
it would just see install event, log this, trigger this operation and continue
and this can lead to huge problems because the service worker installation finishes.
You might have a fetch listener,
you do fetch a resource and you try to get it from the cache even though your caching operation
here hasn't finished yet.
Therefore, we can use event,
so this event object we receive in this function here and there,
the wait until method which means what it sounds like.
It simply waits until a given operation which has to return a promise and caches open returns a promise,
until that is finished
and it won't finish the installation event before that is done,
so this is what we have to do here to ensure that we're done with our cache preparation before this continues.
So again, I pass caches open here and I just structure it over multiple lines to make it easier to
read and this in the end returns a promise.
We can listen to the promise result with then but wait until thankfully
will wait until we're done in the then block as well.
Now before we do something in the then block, we have to decide which cache to open
and you can give your cache any name you like, here
I'll name it static because it's our steady cache, our static assets which don't change that often
and which we pre-cache right at the start,
you could also name it pre-cache, whatever you like.
Then inside the then block, we execute a function like in all then blocks and we get an argument passed
into it by that open method
so to say.
So once it's done opening the static cache or creating it in case it didn't exist yet, it will pass a
reference to that cache, to that function we execute here.
Now in that function here,
we now can add content to the cache, so add files to the cache.
So here first of all, I want a console log something, I'll add my service worker prefix again to make clear
that we're inside a service worker and I'll say pre-caching app shell because this is what I want to do
here and now we do the actual pre-caching. For that, we can access the cache
and there we get a couple of methods we can access. The methods you can access can be found on this
MDN documentation page we showed earlier, we have match, match all, add all, add, put, delete and keys.
Now I'll walk you through these throughout the course.
Basically what we can do is, match allows us to see if our cache contains a certain key,
that's why we pass a request here,
remember requests are the keys in our cache. So we can see if a certain resource is stored and match all
simply does the same for an array of matching requests. Add allows us to add an item to cache and
add all allows us to add an array of items,
so basically spares us to have multiple add calls.
Now put is a little bit like add but add does something else, add will execute the request first,
so it will send the request to the server to get the response and store the response which you need to
do. Put is appropriate
if you send the request in the service worker manually, we'll see both in this course. Add and add all
are typically the things you want to use for pre-caching because we don't want to send the request
manually
there, put will become more important later.
Delete allows you to remove an item from the cache of course and keys allows you to see which keys
you have in that cache,
so basically which requests you have in there stored as keys.
So this is the API and again you will see that throughout the course. Here, add allows us to add a new
resource
and as I said with add, the service worker will go ahead, send the request to the server, get that asset
which it of course needs to be able to store it and stores it, all in one step
and what we pass here simply is the URL we want to send a request to.
Now
for example, if we want to store the app.js
file, we pass the path to that file, seen relative from our web root on because we're on our local
file system here.
So we can say /src/js and in there, then the app.js
file, this file, app.js.
So this will make a request to that file, download it and store it in the cache.
Well let's actually see if that works, for that, I'll save this and I'll go back to our application. Now
keep in mind that the browser will update the service worker when ever it changed by only one byte or
more of course.
So we change the service worker,
so it will try to install the new one and we saw that before. If we just refresh the page,
the new service worker enters waiting state.
Now we could click skip activating or of course the way which always works, the cleanest way is
to simply close the tab and open a new one.
Now the new service worker is installed
and during that installation, we can see it pre-cached our app shell,
it's printing that log.
We can now have a look at it on the application tab, here
cache storage, you should know have an error to expand it,
otherwise click refresh caches.
There, you see this new cache named static, that's the name we set up here
and inside that cache, you'll see one key value pair pointing to the app.js
file on our domain
and the response is OK but it actually is the complete response including the asset itself.
Now if we go to network and tick offline, let's reload the app. You see, it still fails because we're
not fetching this file we cached, still we would be able to do so and we will do so in a second,
so let's fetch our cached asset in the next lecture.
Oh and by the way, if you're wondering why we just stored one file and not all the files I mentioned
that would belong to our app shell,
just because I want to get there step-by-step. We are not done with pre-caching yet.